                 The AIKA Lemmas and Morphology

The AIKA Lemmas and Morphology of the 1933/1938 Finnish Bible
Translation (FABC 2020.3 Text Edition) is licenced under a Creative
Commons Attribution NonCommercial NoDerivatives (CC-BY-NC-ND) 4.0
International license. For attribution purposes, credit the Finnish
Analytical Bible Concordance Project of Aika[media] Oy and Anssi
Yli-Jyr채 at the University of Helsinki.


                       COPYRIGHT STATEMENT 

The AIKA Lemmas and Morphology of the 1933/1938 Finnish Bible
Translation (FABC 2020.3 Text Edition) are the copyright (c) 1992-1997
of the Finnish Analytical Bible Concordance Project of Aikamedia Oy
and (c) March 1998-2020 Anssi Yli-Jyr채 at the University of Helsinki.

The AIKA morphology and lemmatisation are the result of the
collaboration agreement between the University of Helsinki and the RV
Publishing House (later Aika Oy Kristilliset Kirjat and Aikamedia Oy)
that carried manual disambiguation and editing of the lemmas and
morphology for the Finnish Analytical Bible Concordance Project of
Aika[media] Oy.

The collaboration agreement granted the University of Helsinki the
right to make the disambiguated lemmas and the morphological analyses
available to the academic research community and for educational
purposes.  This excludes commercial use and derivatives.  The
University of the Helsinki got the mandate to make the resourse
available under the noncommercial use conditions, while Aika[media]
has the rights to commercialise the resource, or to set the resource
free from commercial use restrictions.

                            LICENSE 

Following the spirit of the academic mandate of the University, a
permission to make the AIKA Lemmas and Morphology available on GitHub
was obtained from the Aikamedia on 11th March 2020.  

The permit to release the material openly on GitHub implies the
mandate to choose an appropriate license for the inserted work.  Since
the work is not software, we restricted the choice to the Creative
Commons licenses.  The CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 is the most restrictive
Creative Commons license, allowing people to download and share the
work for no commercial gain and for no other purposes.  This license
excludes commerical use and derivative, being thus within the spirit
of the collaboration agreement.

   The AIKA Lemmas and Morphology of the 1933/1938 Finnish Bible
   Translation (FABC 2020.3 Text Edition) is licenced under a Creative
   Commons Attribution NonCommercial NoDerivatives (CC-BY-NC-ND) 4.0
   International license. For attribution purposes, credit the Finnish
   Analytical Bible Concordance Project of Aika[media] Oy and Anssi
   Yli-Jyr채 at the University of Helsinki.

If you need a commercial license or a permit to make derivatives
of the Aika Lemmas and Morphology, we ask you kind to be in touch
with

    asiakaspalvelu (at) aikamedia...fi  (customer service)
or  
    anssi.yli-jyra (at) helsinki...fi.

                     THE CURRENT RELEASE

The AIKA Lemmas and Morphology for the HELFI corpus has been extracted
from the proprietary database of the Finnish Analytical Bible
Concordance project of Aikamedia.  The extraction and further
postprocessing of the annotation has been carried out by Anssi
Yli-Jyr채 in March 2020.  This postprocessing involved:

  - dropping out the discarded morphological analyses (actually, this 
    has been done during the course of the project, but the discarded
    lemmas and morphological analyses are, in principle, still in 
    the proprietary archives).

  - application of additional disambiguation rules to certain 
    common ambiguity in verb inflections

  - simplification of the morphological analyses by dropping out 
    some details and the derivation history of the word stems

  - dropping the existing named entity annotation that is not under
    the collaboration agreement

  - dropping the coreference annotation of proper names that is not under
    the collaboration agreement

  - harmonising the morphological glosses with the de facto standard
    glossing abbreviations and the Leipzig glossing rules (but without
    introducing morpheme boundaries to the synthetic Finnish word
    forms).

These changes were necessary to make the AIKA Lemmas and Morphology
shareable and compatible with the HELFI Alignment Data.  In the
future, we are planning to share more of the annotation with the
noncommercial open-source community.



